feat(monitoring): move publisher to sp (#1477)
bonitasoft/bonita-doc: modules/ROOT/pages/runtime-monitoring.adoc

= Bonita Runtime Monitoring
:description: Discover how to monitor a runtime environment running Bonita

[NOTE]
====

> 

Reviewer: For the record, the blank line isn't necessary. Many blank lines have been added during the conversion from md, but it's useless.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

*Work queue*: a queue storing pending works before they are taken by threads for execution.

== What can be monitored?

> The runtime uses https://micrometer.io/[Micrometer] to produce and publish *metrics*. *Metrics* are indicator (generally a numeric value)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The runtime uses https://micrometer.io/[Micrometer] to produce and publish *metrics*. *Metrics* are indicators (generally numeric values)
```

* Several metrics related to Hibernate statistics, under the logical key name *hibernate.**
* Several metrics related to Tomcat, under the logical key name *tomcat.**

== How to retrieve those metrics

Those *metrics* are published on *publishers*. *Publishers* are responsible for exposing the activated metrics.

> It is a channel on which metrics are published. Provided metric publishers are JMX, Log files, Prometheus.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
They are channels on which metrics are published. Provided metric publishers are JMX, Log files, Prometheus.
```

=== JMX Publisher

> The JMX publisher publishes each metrics using MBeans. All those MBeans are in the domain `metrics`.

Reviewer 2: each metrics => each metric~s~ OR all metric*s*

> The JMX publisher publishes each metrics using MBeans. All those MBeans are in the domain `metrics`.

Author: ```suggestion
The JMX publisher publishes each metric using MBeans. All those MBeans are in the domain `metrics`.
```

> It can be enable using the property `org.bonitasoft.engine.plugin.monitoring.publisher.jmx.enable` set to `true`.

Reviewer 2: Should we precise in which file the property is?

Reviewer 2: Forget it, I see the section at the end

> It can be enable using the property `org.bonitasoft.engine.plugin.monitoring.publisher.jmx.enable` set to `true`.

Reviewer 2: ⚠️ Remove extra `.plugin`
```suggestion
It can be enable using the property `org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.publisher.jmx.enable` set to `true`.
```

Author: good catch 👍

=== Log file Publisher

The log file publisher publishes to a file using the logger `com.bonitasoft.engine.configuration.monitoring.LoggingMeterRegistry`
with the log level `INFO`.
Metrics are logged every `1 minute` by default. It can be changed using `org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.logging.step`.

> It can be enabled using the property `org.bonitasoft.engine.plugin.monitoring.publisher.logging.enable` set to `true`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It can be enabled using the property `org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.publisher.logging.enable` set to `true`.
```

 # TYPE tomcat_servlet_request_max_seconds gauge
 tomcat_servlet_request_max_seconds{name="default",} 0.0
 tomcat_servlet_request_max_seconds{name="dispatcherServlet",} 0.104
 # HELP tomcat_threads_config_max_threads
 # TYPE tomcat_threads_config_max_threads gauge
 tomcat_threads_config_max_threads{name="http-nio-8080",} 200.0
 # HELP tomcat_sessions_expired_sessions_total
 # TYPE tomcat_sessions_expired_sessions_total counter
 tomcat_sessions_expired_sessions_total 0.0
 # HELP tomcat_sessions_active_max_sessions
 # TYPE tomcat_sessions_active_max_sessions gauge

>  tomcat_sessions_active_max_sessions 0.0

Reviewer 2: why removing those lines

Author: IMO It was a little too much for a sample

----
./setup/setup.sh pull
----

Edit file `./setup/platform_conf/current/platform_engine/bonita-platform-sp-custom.properties` +

You will see, in the `# MONITORING` section, a series of properties with their default value:

In the first section, published can be activated and configured.

 # PUBLISHERS = where to publish?
 # publish metrics to Prometheus

>  com.bonitasoft.engine.plugin.monitoring.publisher.prometheus.enable=false

Reviewer 2: This property the only one having `.plugin` in its name. Should we change it?

Author: I would say we don't change properties right here, because it's a breaking change.
If we do we should review conventions more globally: https://bonitasoft.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/BONITA/pages/9678946496/Configuration+management

 # print to logs every minute by default (ISO-8601 duration):
 org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.publisher.logging.step=PT1M

In the second section, metrics can be activated.

 # METRICS = what to publish?
 # Note: Bonita-related metrics are automatically published.
 # They are active by default and cannot be disabled.
 #
 # publish technical metrics related to Worker / Connector thread pools:
 org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.metrics.executors.enable=false
 # publish technical metrics related to HIBERNATE statistics
 # To activate, simply set property (in 'bonita-platform-custom.properties ') 'bonita.platform.persistence.generate_statistics=true'
 # publish metrics related to JVM memory:
 org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.metrics.jvm.memory.enable=false
 # publish metrics related to JVM Threads:
 org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.metrics.jvm.threads.enable=false
 # publish metrics related to JVM garbage collection:
 org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.metrics.jvm.gc.enable=false
 # publish technical metrics related to Tomcat (if in a Tomcat context):
 org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.metrics.tomcat.enable=false

[NOTE]
====

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
